Shengwu Nine is incomplete. Here is a basic rundown of what a complete game could look like.


Narrative:
Life has been detected on planet Shengwu Nine - humanity's first discovery of extraterrestrial life. You are the first human scientist sent across the lightyears of space to Shengwu Nine. What will you discover?


Basic idea:
Core theme - the science of complex systems e.g. evolutionary algorithims, cellular automata etc. This is a science game built around playing with those kinds of things. 

The player gets to be a researcher on an alien world. They use science tools and methods to study the alien superorganism, observing, learning, and manipulating it's growth. They can roleplay as a scientist, and maybe even learn a bit about the scientific method and what being a scientist actually involves.

To aid this they can build a laboratory, get research grants to buy new equipment etc. Research findings could applied to new experimental technology that the player tests and uses.

The player is also far from home on a strange world. Things could go wrong here, far from any help.
 


Core mechanics:

Gardening and researching the superorganism.
Game loop = observe - measure and manipulate - observe -...

Sense of wonder and fascination. Because growth is slow this more of a background presence. The player needs other things to do.


Building the lab.
Game loop = build - research - rewarded with new materials - build.

Interact with Mission Control.
Get set research questions/objectives. Make requests for new equipment (and make frustrating competitive funding grant proposals to distant government bureacrats or greedy paranoid corporations - just like real science!).


Survival.
Space survival e.g. maintain space suit. Build habitat module with breathable air. Deal with toxins, contamination. 
If you fail a you start over as a new expedition sent to the ruins.

Story.
Uncover clues about the planet's history. Make decisions about what human society will do with these discoveries (e.g. weaponize it, medical uses, leave the alien in peace). Perhaps at a certain level of evolution and growth the superorganism could be communicated with - maybe it has it's own plans (da-da-DUM!)??
 
